---
layout: post
title: 2. 게임 플레이 에러
categories: [IPG]
tags: [ipg, online]
comments: true
description: 2. 게임 플레이 에러 Game Play Errors
---

{% include toc.md %}

## 2. 게임 플레이 에러
게임 플레이 에러는 부정확한 게임 플레이의 결과로 일어나며 [매직 종합 규칙](http://youbeebee.net)을 위반하게 됩니다. 많은 위반이 이 범주에 속하며 전부 나열하기는 불가능합니다. 아래의 가이드는 심판에게 게임 플레이 에러를 처리하는 방법을 평가하기 위한 프레임워크를 제공하기 위해 디자인되었습니다.

대부분의 게임 플레이 에러는 실수인 것으로 간주합니다. 심판은 이 실수가 의도적인 것이라고 판단한다면 먼저 비신사적 행위 - 부정행위 위반이 발생했는지 고려해야합니다.

벌칙이 상향되지 않는 게임 상태 유지 실패를 제외하고, 동일한 범주의 게임 플레이 에러 위반에 대한 세번째와 그 이후의 벌칙은 게임패로 상향됩니다. 여러날에 걸친 토너먼트의 경우 이러한 위반에 대한 카운트는 날이 넘어가면 초기화됩니다.

### 2.1. 게임 플레이 에러 - 놓친 격발 능력

**패널티 없음**

#### 정의
A triggered ability triggers, but the player controlling the ability doesn’t demonstrate awareness of the trigger’s existence the first time that it would affect the game in a visible fashion.
The point by which the player needs to demonstrate this awareness depends on the impact that the trigger would have on the game:
 * A triggered ability that requires its controller to choose targets (other than 'target opponent'), modes, or other choices made when the ability is put onto the stack: The controller must announce those choices before they next pass priority.
 * A triggered ability that causes a change in the visible game state (including life totals) or requires a choice upon resolution: The controller must take the appropriate physical action or acknowledge the specific trigger before taking any game actions (such as casting a sorcery spell or explicitly taking an action in the next step or phase) that can be taken only after the triggered ability should have resolved. Note that passing priority, casting an instant spell or activating an ability doesn’t mean a triggered ability has been forgotten, as it could still be on the stack.
 * A triggered ability that changes the rules of the game: The controller must acknowledge the trigger or stop an opponent who tries to take any resulting illegal action.
 * A triggered ability that affects the game state in non-visible ways: The controller must make the change known by the first time the change has an effect on the visible game state.
Once any of the above obligations has been fulfilled, further problems are treated as a Game Play Error — Game Rule Violation.
Triggered abilities that do nothing except create delayed triggered abilities automatically resolve without requiring acknowledgment. Awareness of the resulting delayed trigger must be demonstrated at the appropriate point. Triggered abilities that do nothing except create one or more copies of a spell or ability (such as storm or cipher) automatically resolve, but awareness of the resulting objects must be demonstrated using the same requirements as described above (even though the objects may not be triggered abilities).
If a triggered ability would have no impact on the game, it’s not an infraction to fail to demonstrate awareness of it. For example, if the effect of a triggered ability instructs its controller to sacrifice a creature, a player who controls no creatures isn’t required to demonstrate awareness of the ability. Similarly, a player demonstrating awareness of an optional trigger with no visible effect is assumed to have made the affirmative choice unless the opponent responds.
Judges do not intervene in a missed trigger situation unless they intend to issue a Warning or have reason to suspect that the controller is intentionally missing their triggered abilities.
A player controlling another player is responsible for that player’s triggers in addition to their own.

#### 예시
A. Knight of Infamy (a 2/1 creature with exalted) attacks alone. Its controller says “Take two.”
B. A player forgets to remove the final time counter from a suspended spell and then draws a card during their draw step.
C. A player casts Manic Vandal, then forgets its triggered ability by not choosing a target for it. They realize this only after casting another spell.
D. A player forgets to exile the Angel token created by Geist of Saint Traft at end of combat. They realize the error when declaring blockers during the next turn.

#### 철학
Triggered abilities are common and invisible, so players should not be harshly penalized when forgetting about one. Players are expected to remember their own triggered abilities; intentionally ignoring one may be Unsporting Conduct — Cheating (unless the ability would have no impact on the game as described above). Even if an opponent is involved in the announcement or resolution of the ability, the controller is still responsible for ensuring the opponents make the appropriate choices and take the appropriate actions. Opponents are not required to point out triggered abilities that they do not control, though they may do so if they wish.
Triggered abilities are assumed to be remembered until otherwise indicated, and the impact on the game state may not be immediately apparent. The opponent’s benefit is in not having to point out triggered abilities, although this does not mean that they can cause triggers to be missed. If an opponent requires information about the precise timing of a triggered ability or needs details about a game object that may be affected by a resolved triggered ability, that player may need to acknowledge that ability’s existence before its controller does. A player who makes a play that may or may not be legal depending on whether an uncommunicated trigger has been remembered has not committed an infraction; their play either succeeds, confirming that the trigger has been missed, or is rewound.
Players may not cause triggered abilities controlled by an opponent to be missed by taking game actions or otherwise prematurely advancing the game. During an opponent’s turn, if a trigger’s controller demonstrates awareness of the trigger before they take an active role (such as taking an action or explicitly passing priority), the trigger is remembered. The Out-of-Order Sequencing rules (MTR section 4.3) may also be applicable, especially as they relate to batches of actions or resolving items on the stack in an improper order.

#### 추가적인 해결책
Three types of triggered abilities do not expire and resolve immediately if they are discovered:
 * A triggered ability that specifies a default action associated with a choice made by the controller (usually "If you don't ..." or "... unless"). The opponent may choose not to resolve this trigger. Otherwise the default action must be chosen.
 * An enters-the-battlefield trigger of an Aura that affects only the enchanted permanent and causes a visible change to that permanent.
 * A delayed triggered ability that changes the zone of one or more objects defined when the ability was created. For this trigger, the opponent chooses whether to resolve the ability the next time a player would get priority or when a player would get priority at the start of the next phase.
Abilities consisting of an action followed by “when you do” in the same ability are considered communicated by the announcement of the action. This is most commonly the case for exert and similar abilities.
If the ability was missed prior to the current phase in the previous turn, instruct the players to continue playing. If the triggered ability created an effect whose duration has already expired, instruct the players to continue playing.
If the triggered ability isn’t covered by the previous two paragraphs, the opponent chooses whether the triggered ability is added to the stack. If it is, it’s inserted at the appropriate place on the stack if possible or on the bottom of the stack. No player may make choices involving objects that would not have been legal choices when the ability should have triggered. For example, if the ability instructs a player to sacrifice a creature, that player can't sacrifice a creature that wasn't on the battlefield when the ability should have triggered.
Upgrade: If the triggered ability is usually considered detrimental for the controlling player the penalty is a Warning. The current game state is not a factor in determining this, though symmetrical abilities (such as Howling Mine) may be considered usually detrimental or not depending on who is being affected

### 2.2. 게임 플레이 에러 - 추가 카드 보기

**경고**

#### 정의
A player takes an action that may have enabled them to see the faces of cards in a deck that they were not entitled to see.
This penalty is applied only once if one or more cards are seen in the same action or sequence of actions.

#### 예시
A. A player accidentally reveals (drops, flips over) a card while shuffling their opponent’s library.
B. A player pulls up an extra card while drawing from their library.
C. A player sees the bottom card of their deck when presenting it to their opponent for cutting/shuffling.

#### 철학
A player can accidentally look at extra cards easily and this infraction handles situations where a dexterity or rules error has led to a player seeing cards in a library that they shouldn’t have. Cards are considered to be in a library until they touch cards in another hidden set. Once those cards have joined another hidden set, the infraction is handled as a Hidden Card Error or Game Rule Violation.
Players should not use this penalty to get a “free shuffle” or to attempt to shuffle away cards they don’t want to draw; doing so may be Unsporting Conduct — Cheating. Players also are not allowed to use this penalty as a stalling mechanism. The library is already randomized, so shuffling in the revealed cards should not involve excessive effort.

#### 추가적인 해결책
Shuffle any previously unknown cards into the random portion of the deck, then put any known cards back in their correct locations.

### 2.3. 게임 플레이 에러 - 숨겨진 카드 에러

**경고**

#### 정의
A player commits an error in the game that cannot be corrected by only publicly available information and does so without their opponent’s permission.
This infraction only applies when a card whose identity is known to only one player is in a hidden set of cards both before and after the error.
This infraction does not apply to simple dexterity errors, such as when a card being pulled off the library sticks to another card and is seen or knocked off the library. The cards themselves must be part of a distinct set intended by the player.

#### 예시
A. A player draws four cards after casting Ancestral Recall.
B. A player scries two cards when they should only have scried one.
C. A player resolves a Dark Confidant trigger, but forgets to reveal the card before putting it into their hand.
D. A player has more cards in their hand than can be accounted for.
E. A player casts Anticipate and picks up the top four cards of their library.
F. A player, going first, draws for their turn.

#### 철학
Though the game state cannot be reversed to the ‘correct’ state, this error can be mitigated by giving the opponent sufficient knowledge and ability to offset the error so that it is less likely to generate advantage.
If cards are placed into a public zone, then their order is known and the infraction can be handled as a Game Rule Violation. Order cannot be determined from card faces only visible to one player unless the card is in a uniquely identifiable position (such as on top of the library, or as the only card in hand.)
Be careful not to apply this infraction in situations where a publicly-correctable error subsequently leads to an uncorrectable situation such as a Brainstorm cast using green mana. In these situations, the infraction is based on that root cause.
Information about cards previously known by the opponent, such as cards previously revealed while on the top of the library or by a previous look at the hand, may be taken into account while determining the set of cards to which the remedy applies.
Always operate on the smallest set possible to remedy the error. This may mean applying the remedy to only part of a set defined by an instruction. For example, if a player resolves Collected Company, picks up three cards with one hand and then four cards with the other, the last drawn set of four cards should be used for the remedy, instead of the full set of seven cards..

#### 추가적인 해결책
In cases where the infraction was immediately followed by moving a card from the affected set to a known location, such as by discarding, putting cards on top of the library, or playing a land, a simple backup to the point just after the error may be performed.
If the set of cards that contained the problem no longer exists, there is no remedy to be applied.
If the error put cards into a set prematurely and other operations involving cards in the set should have been performed first, the player reveals the set of cards that contains the excess and their opponent chooses a number of previously-unknown cards. Put those cards aside until the point at which they should have been legally added, then return them to the set.
If the error involves one or more cards that were supposed to be revealed, the player reveals the set of cards that contains the unrevealed cards and their opponent chooses that many previously-unknown cards. Treat those as the cards that were ‘revealed’ and return them to the set that was being selected from; the player then reperforms the action. If recreating the original selection set and reperforming the action would be too disruptive, leave the selected cards in hand.
If a set affected by the error contains more cards than it is supposed to contain, the player reveals the set of cards that contains the excess and their opponent chooses a number of previously-unknown cards sufficient to reduce the set to the correct size. These excess cards are returned to the correct location. If that location is the library, they should be shuffled into the random portion unless the owner previously knew the identity of the card/cards illegally moved; that many cards, chosen by the opponent, are returned to the top of the library instead. For example, if a player playing with Sphinx of Jwar Isle illegally draws a card, that card should be returned to the top of the library.
Upgrade: If a face-down card cast using a morph ability is discovered during the game to not have a morph ability, the penalty is a Game Loss. If the player has one or more cards with a morph ability in hand, has not added previously unknown cards to their hand since casting the card found in violation, and has discovered the error themselves, the upgrade does not apply and they may swap the card for a card with the morph ability in hand.

### 2.4. 게임 플레이 에러 - 멀리건 과정 에러

**경고**

#### 정의
A player makes an error as part of the mulligan process. This infraction does not apply to errors made once pre-game procedures are complete. “Scrying” for more than one card after taking a mulligan is treated as a Hidden Card Error.
Trivial process errors that provide no advantage, such as declaring an intent to mulligan early, are not an infraction.

#### 예시
A. A player draws eight cards at the start of the game (instead of seven).
B. A player draws seven cards at the start of the game (instead of six) after taking a mulligan.
C. A player keeps their hand, scries, then mulligans again.
D. A player chooses to not take a mulligan then takes a mulligan after seeing their opponent choose to take a mulligan.

#### 철학
Errors prior to the beginning of the game have a less disruptive option—a forced mulligan—that is not available at any other point during the game. However, players should not be incentivized to sit on the infraction until mulligan procedures are completed so that they can ‘discover’ the error at a point where it becomes a Hidden Card Error if they believe that is to their advantage. To encourage the offending player to report their error as early as possible, they are given their choice of remedy before the game begins.
If a player looks at the top card of their library after taking a mulligan, it is assumed that they have chosen to keep their hand unless they make it very clear that they intend to mulligan again, either verbally before looking or by picking up multiple cards from the top of their library.

#### 추가적인 해결책
If the player has too many cards in hand, they may choose to reveal their hand, and their opponent chooses a card from it to be shuffled back into the library. If more than one excess card was drawn (for example, eight cards drawn during a mulligan to 6) their opponent continues removing cards until the correct number has been reached.
If cards are not removed from the hand this way (either due to an error that didn't lead to too many cards, or by the player choosing not to reveal), that player takes an additional mulligan. 
Players may continue taking mulligans after the remedy has been completed.

### 2.5. 게임 플레이 에러 - 게임 규칙 위반

**경고**

#### 정의
This infraction covers the majority of game situations in which a player makes an error or fails to follow a game procedure correctly. It handles violations of the Comprehensive Rules that are not covered by the other Game Play Errors.

#### 예시
A. A player casts Wrath of God for 3W (actual cost 2WW).
B. A player does not attack with a creature that must attack each turn.
C. A player fails to put a creature with lethal damage into a graveyard and it is not noticed until several turns later.
D. A Phyrexian Revoker is on the battlefield that should have had a card named for it.
E. A player casts Brainstorm and forgets to put two cards back on top of their library.

#### 철학
While Game Rule Violations can be attributed to one player, they usually occur publicly and both players are expected to be mindful of what is happening in the game. It is tempting to try and “fix” these errors, but it is important that they be handled consistently, regardless of their impact on the game.

#### 추가적인 해결책
First, consider a simple backup (see section 1.4).
If a simple backup is not sufficient and the infraction falls into one or more of the following categories, and only into those categories, perform the appropriate partial fix:
 * If a player forgot to untap one or more permanents at the start of their turn and it is still the same turn, untap them.
 * If a player made an illegal choice (including no choice where required) for a static ability generating a continuous effect still on the battlefield, that player makes a legal choice.
 * If a player failed to draw cards, discard cards, or return cards from their hand to another zone, that player does so.
 * If an object is in an incorrect zone either due to a required zone change being missed or due to being put into the wrong zone during a zone change, the identity of the object was known to all players, and it can be moved with only minor disruption to the current state of the game, put the object in the correct zone.
 * If damage assignment order has not been declared, the appropriate player chooses that order.
For each of these fixes, a simple backup may be performed beforehand if it makes applying the fix smoother. Triggered abilities are generated from these partial fixes only if they would have occurred had the action been taken at the correct time.
Otherwise, a full backup may be considered or the game state may be left as is.
For most Game Play Errors not caught within a time that a player could reasonably be expected to notice, opponents receive a Game Play Error — Failure to Maintain Game State penalty. If the judge believes that both players were responsible for a Game Rule Violation, such as due to the existence of replacement effects or a player taking action based on another players instruction, both players receive a Game Play Error — Game Rule Violation. For example, if a player casts Path to Exile on an opponent’s creature and the opponent puts the creature into the graveyard, both players have committed this infraction.

### 2.6. 게임 플레이 에러 - 게임 상태 유지 실패

**경고**

#### 정의
A player allows another player in the game to commit a Game Play Error and does not point it out immediately. If a judge believes a player is intentionally not pointing out other players’ illegal actions, either for their own advantage, or in the hope of bringing it up at a more strategically advantageous time, they should consider an Unsporting Conduct — Cheating infraction. Not reminding an opponent about their triggered abilities is never Failure to Maintain Game State nor Cheating.

#### 예시
A. A player’s opponent forgets to reveal the card searched for by Worldly Tutor. It is not noticed until the end of turn.
B. A player does not notice that their opponent has Armadillo Cloak on a creature with protection from green.

#### 철학
If an error is caught before a player could gain advantage, then the dangers of the ongoing game state becoming corrupted are much lower. If the error is allowed to persist, at least some of the fault lies with the opponent, who has also failed to notice the error.
