---
layout: post
title: 4. 비신사적 행위
categories: [IPG]
tags: [ipg, online]
comments: true
permalink: /ipg/4
description: 3. 비신사적 행위 Unsporting Conduct
---

{% include toc.md %}

## 4. 비신사적 행위
Unsporting conduct is disruptive behavior that may affect the safety, competitiveness, enjoyment, or integrity of a tournament in a significantly negative fashion.
Unsporting behavior is not the same as a lack of sporting behavior. There is a wide middle ground of “competitive” behavior that is certainly neither “nice” nor “sporting” but still doesn’t qualify as “unsporting.” The Head Judge is the final arbiter on what constitutes unsporting conduct.
Judges should inform the player how their conduct is disruptive. The player is expected to correct the situation and behavior immediately. However, while making sure that the player understands the severity of their actions is important, judges should focus first on calming a situation, and deal with infractions and penalties afterwards.

4.1. Unsporting Conduct — Minor
Warning
Definition
A player takes action that is disruptive to the tournament or its participants. It may affect the comfort level of those around the individual, but determining whether this is the case is not required.
Examples
A. A player uses excessively vulgar and profane language.
B. A player inappropriately demands to a judge that their opponent receive a penalty.
C. A player appeals to the Head Judge before waiting for the floor judge to issue a ruling.
D. A player throws their deck on the ground after losing a game.
E. A player leaves excessive trash in the play area after leaving the table.
F. A player fails to follow the request of a tournament official to leave the play area.
Philosophy
All participants should expect a safe and enjoyable environment at a tournament, and a player needs to be made aware if their behavior is unacceptable so that this environment may be maintained.
Additional Remedy
The player must correct the problem immediately. Subsequent Unsporting Conduct — Minor infractions, even for different offenses, will result in a Game Loss. If a Game Loss is issued for repeated infractions, and it occurs at the end of a game, it is acceptable for the judge to apply the penalty to the next game instead.

4.2. Unsporting Conduct — Major
Match Loss
Definition
A player takes action towards one or more individuals that could reasonably be expected to create a feeling of being harassed, threatened, bullied, or stalked. This may include insults based on race, color, religion, national origin, age, gender, disability, or sexual orientation. Threats of physical violence should be treated as Unsporting Conduct – Aggressive Behavior.
It is possible for an offender to commit this infraction without intending malice or harm to the subject of the harassment.
Examples
A. A player uses a racial slur against their opponent.
B. A player takes inappropriate photos of another player without express permission.
C. A player asks a spectator for a date, is denied, and continues to press the issue.
D. A player purposefully obstructs another player with the intent of inducing physical contact.
E. A spectator uses social media to bully another player.
Philosophy
A safe environment is a basic expectation of any tournament attendee. Harassment undermines the safety and integrity of a tournament. Players who purposefully create harmful or unwelcoming situations in a tournament are expected to immediately correct the behavior and demonstrate remorse or be removed.
Because of the confrontational nature of this infraction, judges need to end any match in progress and separate the players. Care should be taken not to escalate the situation if at all possible. The offender will be removed from the area to receive the penalty, and education about why the behavior is unacceptable regardless of excuse. They may need a few moments to cool down afterwards. Apologizing is encouraged, but the desire of the other individuals to not interact with their harasser must be respected.
Officials must investigate these matters as soon as they are brought to their attention. If they determine that the infraction does not meet the criteria for Unsporting Conduct – Major, it is still recommended that the players be talked to to avoid future misunderstandings.
Additional Remedy
The player must correct the behavior immediately. If the offense occurs at the end of a match, it is acceptable for the judge to apply the penalty to the next match instead.
Upgrade: If the offense was committed with malicious intent, the player displays no remorse, or the offense is repeated at a later time, the penalty is Disqualification and removal from the venue.

4.3. Unsporting Conduct — Improperly Determining a Winner
Disqualification
Definition
A player uses or offers to use a method that is not part of the current game (including actions not legal in the current game) to determine the outcome of a game or match.
A player who receives an offer and does not immediately contact a tournament official is considered complicit in the offer and will receive the same penalty.
Examples
A. As time is called, two players about to draw roll a die to determine the winner.
B. A player offers to flip a coin to determine the winner of a match.
C. Two players arm wrestle to determine the winner of the match.
D. Two players play rock-paper-scissors to decide if they should play the match or draw.
E. Two players compare the converted mana costs of the top cards of their libraries to determine the winner of a game at the end of extra turns.
F. Two players reveal cards from the top of their libraries to see “who would win” after extra turns.
Philosophy
Using an outside-the-game method to determine a winner compromises the integrity of the tournament.
Matches that result in a draw due to time are expected to be reported as such and are not excluded from this penalty if the players use an illegal method to determine the outcome.

4.4. Unsporting Conduct — Bribery and Wagering
Disqualification
Definition
A player offers an incentive to entice an opponent into conceding, drawing, or changing the results of a match, or accepts such an offer. Refer to section 5.2 of the Magic Tournament Rules for a more detailed description of what constitutes bribery.
Wagering occurs when a player or spectator at a tournament places or offers to place a bet on the outcome of a tournament, match or any portion of a tournament or match. The wager does not need to be monetary, nor is it relevant if a player is not betting on their own match.
A player who receives an offer and does not immediately contact a tournament official is considered complicit in the offer and will receive the same penalty.
Examples
A. A player in a Swiss round offers their opponent $100 to concede the match.
B. A player offers their opponent a card in exchange for a draw.
C. A player asks for a concession in exchange for a prize split.
D. Two players agree that the winner of the match will be able to choose a rare card out of the other person’s deck after the match.
E. Two spectators place a bet on the number of games that will be needed to decide a match.
Philosophy
Bribery and wagering disrupt the integrity of the tournament and are strictly forbidden.

4.5. Unsporting Conduct — Aggressive Behavior
Disqualification
Definition
A player acts in a threatening way towards others or their property.
Examples
A. A player threatens to hit another player who won’t concede to them.
B. A player pulls a chair out from under another player, causing them to fall to the ground.
C. A player makes threats against a judge after receiving a ruling.
D. A player tears up a card belonging to another player.
E. A player intentionally turns over a table.
Philosophy
The safety of all people at a tournament is of paramount importance. There will be no tolerance of physical abuse or intimidation.
Additional Remedy
The offender should be asked to leave the venue by the organizer.

4.6. Unsporting Conduct — Theft of Tournament Material
Disqualification
Definition
A player steals materials from the tournament, including but not limited to cards or tournament equipment.
Examples
A. A player steals cards from the sideboard of their opponent.
B. A player steals the table number from a table.
C. A player realizes they have a previous opponent’s card, but they hide it instead of telling a tournament official.
Philosophy
Players enter a tournament expecting that their materials will be protected. This does not absolve the players from their responsibility to keep an eye on their possessions, but they should expect to be able to retain the product they began with or were given for the tournament. Other instances of theft not involving tournament materials are the responsibility of the Tournament Organizer, though judges are encouraged to help in any way possible.

Additional Remedy
The offender should be asked to leave the venue by the organizer.

4.7. Unsporting Conduct — Stalling
Disqualification
Definition
A player intentionally plays slowly in order to take advantage of the time limit. If the slow play is not intentional, please refer to Tournament Error — Slow Play instead.
Examples
A. A player has two lands in their hand, no options available to significantly affect the game, and spends excessive time “thinking” about what to do to eat up time on the clock.
B. A player is ahead in games and significantly slows down their pace of play so the opponent has little chance to catch up.
C. A player playing slowly appeals a warning in an attempt to gain advantage by having more time to make a decision.
D. A player intentionally mulligans slowly before the third game in an attempt to make it harder for their opponent to win in time.
E. A player losing a game starts slowing down the pace of play in an attempt to run out the clock.

4.8. Unsporting Conduct — Cheating
Disqualification
Definition
A person breaks a rule defined by the tournament documents, lies to a tournament official, or notices an offense committed in their (or a teammate's) match and does not call attention to it.
Additionally, the offense must meet the following criteria for it to be considered Cheating:
• The player must be attempting to gain advantage from their action.
• The player must be aware that they are doing something illegal.
If all criteria are not met, the offense is not Cheating and is handled by a different infraction. Cheating will often appear on the surface as a Game Play Error or Tournament Error, and must be investigated by the judge to make a determination of intent and awareness.
Examples
A. A player alters the results on a match slip without their opponent’s knowledge.
B. A player lies to a tournament official about what happened in a game to make their case stronger.
C. A player allows their opponent to put a creature into the graveyard even though the creature has not been dealt lethal damage.
D. A player notices that their opponent resolved only half of the triggered ability of Sword of Feast and Famine and decides not to call attention to the error.
E. A player peeks at another player’s picks during the draft.
F. A player adds cards to their Sealed Deck pool.
G. A player realizes they have accidentally drawn an extra card, then fails to call a judge in order to avoid a penalty.